open the gates that's Mr Beast and this
is how he's about to pull off the
highest budget biggest production
YouTube video ever created storming this
field is 2,000 contestants look at him
there 2,000 people competing for that $5
million so how on Earth do you run and
record a competition show for this many
people and the biggest question how much
does it cost to pull all of this off
well it wasn't without some very real
challenges but one thing's for sure from
a technical perspective this is
absolutely insane and I'm giving him all
access to everything behind the scenes
from the cameras the logistics and he's
going to show it all to you and also
that's $5 million real doar don't rob me
so there are four challenges that the
contestants are going to be going
through this is us just before the first
I gathered all the guards over here so
you can test them they're not supposed
to show motion basically just like
mannequins you guys are not supposed to
speak this feels mean they're not going
to talk but they are going to dance if
you catch them after hours that's right
ladies and gentlemen that's not his real
skin
for challenge one in which the
contestants had to split up into five
groups and each group had to pull up a
very heavy Boulder as fast as they could
every person in the losing team gets
eliminated I realize there's 2,000
contestants behind me shouting and
screaming but this is the coolest thing
for me right now so this structure right
here has been custom built for this
challenge to basically regulate the
amount of pulling Force required to lift
that Boulder so the Rope feeds through
this contraption before it goes out to
the contestants and the way that it's
weaved through on the inside determines
how easy it is to pull so just to give
you an idea of how important this is the
Beast team originally set this mechanism
up to require 32,000 Newtons of pulling
Force but it's only as they started to
play test it a few days before with a
whole extra crew of play testers by the
way let move in a little bit they
realized 32,000 Newtons is going to take
people way too long for the challenge to
be fun to watch so just by weaving this
rope through the Contraption in a
slightly different way they could
quickly lower the required pulling Force
to just 10,000 oh and also this
microphone here is sat there
specifically to capture just the sound
of effect of the Rope being pulled it's
a little bit crazy just how many things
you have to think about if you want to
do this right even literally the
flooring Jimmy decided that he wanted
this place to look like a Coliseum so
they pulled out every single bit of
AstroTurf from it and then they've
covered it with these Olive pits to
basically give it that cinematic sand
being thrown up ceiling when people are
running around through it this is the
Box camera we're using to adjudicate as
soon as one of these Boulders cross the
finish line that's the winner and so
we'll be able to see from this camera
which boulders and that team's
eliminated didn't even occur to me that
you need adjudication cameras we set our
camera at the same height as this finish
line so we can see exactly who won
they're both at 80 ft so every single
contestant also has an NFC wristband
that they're scanning to keep track of
who's in the game and who's out of the
game when you're out they'll know that
you need to go out too if you leave
we're not leaving you're not leaving
we're not leaving okay it took around 3
hours after revealing this first game
before the thing actually kicked off
partly to give the teams time to
strategize partly because everything
takes longer than you expect when you're
trying to organize this many people
ready
wow this game genuinely lasted about 15
seconds in total and it was specifically
designed to be that way oh my
god that's literally it red team is done
we just lost out on this chance to win
$5 million we not Le I can't believe how
quickly that happened Mr Beast wanted to
make sure that the first game people saw
was as easy to explain as possible and
as quick to finish as possible not so
much for the people here but more so
that the viewers of the final video are
able to get easily invested without
feeling like they're suddenly having to
learn something really complicated you
can actually see people in that queue
they're so defeated some of them are
crying you know when you watch Mr Beast
videos online and you think it can't be
like that in real life the feeling is
very much
here I
I love you
too you all watch our videos love your
videos oh my God Ricky Ricky you guys
must feel like top of the world right
now it was so nerve-wracking so
nerve-wracking does that scare you like
seeing what the other teams can do I
can't be scared we're we're a part of
History here well I'm rooting for you
guys personally cuz you're fans yellow
team you heard that yellow team yellow
team yep I heard that all right yellow
team for the win and now while we waited
for game two to start now felt like as
good a time as any to head to the main
camera room to see the belly of the
Beast and while the camera team were out
actually filming the show who better to
show us this room than Mr Tariq since
the last time I saw you a lot has
changed from the equipment to how we go
about things to the lighting you've seen
the scale of the projects has to be
better and Jimmy's not as particular
about the cameras anymore so he used to
be really in the weeds with it now it's
like I trust and I like it so these are
just the ground cameras they'll be for
talent they'll be just for close-ups on
any of the contestants just like a grabb
and go run and capture that moment this
is very rigged up very rigged up yeah I
noticed every single one of these
cameras has a light on it darker images
don't perform better retention wise at
least is what we've learned and then we
have the time code here it's just so we
make sure everything is time coded ah
yes the time code so they bought one of
these devices to plug into every camera
on this shoot for one job so whenever it
goes to editing they know exactly what
happened and when it happened so for
example if somebody Falls and it's a
really funny moment every single camera
you could just search for that second
and you'll have 100 viewpoints of that
one shot almost 500 for this kid almost
500 I'm curious how the rig has evolved
a lot heavier we have more stuff
especially like tailored for editing
better mic the signal just makes it
easier to grab it and just get
everything you need in one shot holding
this for about 5 minutes I can see why
there's an ex St ATT T oh yeah I mean
you get some strong soldiers so that's
the Run and Gun cameras there's 28 of
those and they are pretty high spec
totaling $100,000 in value the only one
of these that's a tiny bit different is
Mr be personal camera rig which has two
lights on it instead of one to make him
the brightest thing on screen so that
your eyes are naturally drawn towards
him there's a whole corner copia of
lenses and they all have different
purposes you guys use GoPros a lot but
GoPros capture like a very different
kind of shot to something like this is
there a difference in what shots you use
for what purpose emotional shots we try
to do telephoto so we put somebody on
the other side and just zoom in on their
face as much as you can and then just
kind of get that reaction you'll see a
lot of the most vulnerable real moments
on Mr be videos being captured like this
because the camera is so far away that
the contestant isn't spotting it and so
isn't acting for it but that is far from
the full Suite of camera G here there's
35 Sony fx9 Cinema cameras dotted all
around the stadium to get the main wide
fixed shots of the games there's 10 pan
tilt Zoom or PTZ cameras which are also
fixed in place but can be remotely
operated to control what they're looking
at 20 DJI Osmos for handing to the
contestants to Vlog certain sequences
since they are literally the easiest
cameras to operate all rounded off with
400 I kid you not 400 GoPros they use
these cuz they're small enough to fit
inside of things and also just blend
into the background so they don't appear
in the rest of the camera's shots and
that's not even factoring in all of the
accessories like power banks for every
single GoPro and also the proper
Flagship camera gear like the Box
cameras the sky cameras and the whole
Army of drones but we are getting to
that I noticed everyone's got delightful
little nicknames for the different SE SE
and so hot and cold for this battery
section I assume hot means fully charged
cold means empty yes it's exceptionally
organized you can tell this is someone's
job to create this pile absolutely Tariq
then took us to Mac who is the lead
editor of the Mr Beast team why he so
tall man he's all dressed up he's tall
and he pulls me out when I'm in my
underwear and I'm all short sticks me
right on camera I am not short that's
all we came here for yeah and now that
we' establish that Mac definitely isn't
short I thought well Mr Beast videos are
pretty much the most consistent highly
viewed videos on the internet so given
how involved Mac is especially in the
intros of them how do these guys make
sure that they perfectly capture your
attention at the start the way we look
at intros basically just like a
continuation of the thumbnail most
people don't have YouTube premium right
and so they'll click on a video then
they'll watch like a minute out or 5sec
out and skip it whatever they do they
will literally forget what they clicked
on so what kind of things have you
thought about with this video
specifically the intro we were thinking
about basically flying camera back
instead of flying camera forward I want
to see Jimmy's face I want to see the $5
million cash prize and I also want to
communicate spect the other thing I
thought was really interesting about the
intro shot is they filmed it on two
separate occasions across 6 hours of
time giv that the intro is the single
most important 10 seconds of the entire
video these guys actually set up and
recorded the full thing once before any
contestants had even arrived when they
have the time to make sure that they
have one intro that they know works but
then once again with all the contestants
just in case that take ends up having
better energy is there a shortage of
shirts I just keep ripping them I'm not
the is short I'll tell you what isn't
short the amount of footage that these
guys' editors have to get through but
there's a solution to that we have the
best editors in the world if we have 10
hours of footage it gets sunk the
assistant editors will take it down to 2
hours of what's usable like a really
great editor an editor that can do
videos at this level I can't find them
anywhere and so preserving them and
preventing them from burning out as much
as possible is like the name of the game
thank you dude you're a legend I love
your videos by the way actually your
editors are really good don't get any
ideas man you guys looking a jump ship
no I'm just kid all right let me take
this off okay
we're going to call it for tonight after
the first challenge the timing on this
is absolutely crazy my brain is so fried
it doesn't feel like 3:42 a.m. yeah I
guess there fluorescent lighting all
around the place can you see my face
here by the way this is the face of a
man who's been awake for nearly 24 hours
because of the sudden decision change
today to switch from Day filming to
night filming in fact scheduling just
generally was easily one of the toughest
parts of the shoot because instead of
the original plan of 2 days of filming
it actually ended up being three nights
not to we've mentioned and the extra 3
days around those three nights that
everyone involved in the shoot had to
make sure they were always ready for not
easy for anyone involved contestants
included I'm just kind of used to it
usually we end up filming deep into the
night like this at night I can point
lights and control where your focus is
during the day you see everything so I
prefer to film at night I mean it's
pretty brutal rest
up okay night two game two so in this
game contestants will stand around a
whole load of briefcases they look at a
board which will tell them which
briefcases are safe and which will get
them eliminated and then they will have
to get to one of those safe briefcases
before anyone else can so what's going
through your mind right now well I just
honestly want to make sure the
briefcases get put out right I just want
to make sure it all looks good we have a
lot of writing on this shoe one thing
you've talked about a lot is the way you
tell stories is that changing go watch a
Mr Beast video from 3 years ago I'll be
like 50% louder it'll be like 50% faster
yeah and you'll get like a headache
you're making like a purposeful effort
in this video for example just just slow
down exactly let some moments just sit
Trust that people will watch because you
know they're very invested in the story
as opposed to like being tricked into
watch because there's like cut cut cut
cut cut what time is it right now it's
only like 10: right actually yeah it's 9
9:00 p.m. oh yeah this is pretty early
this is great like I actually should be
awake right now and that's crazy did you
talk to the people who got out it feel I
felt so bad yeah there was some pretty
real tears we tried to make it easier on
them by giving everyone $2,000 that way
everyone at least had something to go
home with the first challenge we
eliminated 400 people and since we gave
each of them two grand that's $800,000
the money isn't the only thing these
guys have to think about when people are
eliminated do you remember these RFID
bracelets well this is where they come
in again there's some sort of checkout
process as well when they entered the
arena we scanned so we knew they were
here SC baby so we counted that we had
2,000 exactly then we could start the
game then when they got into teams oh so
when they sorted themselves you added
that data onto their rfids so that your
system knows exactly which team Green
Team yellow team then we have all those
lists ready it's the same as
eliminations so all of the red team that
was eliminated even though we knew it
was red team just to be absolutely sure
we scanned every single one on the way
out wow then we know if somebody's
missing in the stadium is this because
you've been burned before on previous
games people are hide did you see the
end of that game but Jimmy had to call
her up to tell her that oh come on and
red team's out she was a red team
contestant he was trying to stay trying
to stay in the game yeah so the
bracelets are really a way for us to
keep track of everybody now if you
already thought the shoot was a
complicated Affair you have not seen the
start of it because it was at this point
that I was introduced to a whole new
branch of the operation this is Emily
and she is a story producer having all
of us here and just taking notes of
choses that happen little quotes we hear
that would make good content it just
overall helps the post-production
process so the entire role of these guys
is to look and to listen to what's
happening on the field to try and figure
out what the story is going to be while
the video is still being shot so that by
the time it ends up in the post-
production editing stage that team can
be as efficient as possible part of the
recruitment process you ask people to
send a one minute video of themselves
and you use that to judge their
character and their energy and so you're
saying as part of that you pick the top
tier people and you're like you get a
microphone yes 40 contestants are miked
up out of the 200000 this board was the
initial idea of who would get miked up I
think as they meet the people and as
people like show their true selves on
the field they'll switch it out this is
absolutely crazy this is movie
investigation pinboard type by once
people get eliminated they'll remik
other people obviously like things
change and mics change so like we have
people designated to go out there and
keep track of who gets remake which
helps us like tremendously during the
post-production process you've got
Heroes villains family and then others
you've not just pegged people as being
main characters but you've pegged that
they've got a personality trait that
might make them a villain yes so yeah
you can't predict the stories that will
form but you can predict the people who
are most likely to form them those
people are given the microphon so that's
fascinating are you listening to those
people in real time on the average Beast
video will have one person listening so
we have six people and then I'm doing
like visuals right now everyone gets
seven people to listen to so that
instead of listening to 40 people at
once you only have to listen to seven
people so this is the live universal
time code and that's synced with all the
cameras so you know exactly what's
shooting when and then these are the
notes the story editors are leading so
this means that when the editors get the
footage it will not just automatically
slot in at the exact time that each shot
was actually taken but they will also
get all of this guiding information from
the story producers so they know
specifically what look for within those
shots everything's been thought about
yes so that's where all the story
producers hang out this is basically
Jimmy's private viewing Suite so whoa
it's basically the same thing but this
room is specifically designed for Jimmy
to come and have a kind of one glance
view of every single thing that's
happening so you can give really quick
feedback in between him being on camera
there's a lot of screens here so there's
18 TVs in this one room quite impressed
with the uh the bezels on these as well
it almost looks like one continuous
video War they're bringing out the
briefcases for the next game should
probably go you know what's extra crazy
about this because everything that
happens in the stadium is recorded and
might end up being part of the video
even the setup of things needs to be a
rehearsed Affair it took 100 people
nearly an entire day just practicing how
to set this one game up lining up these
briefcases figuring out how to enter the
stadium in an organized way timing the
process to make sure it doesn't drag and
also measuring to make sure that every
table was exactly qu distant I hate when
it's like day of and we do those things
and it's not choreographed cuz it just
looks very amateur when it's all time to
choreograph then we can timelapse it it
can be like bring out the
briefcases but if it's not like sped up
time lapses good so it has to come out
in an organized way that looks good when
it's fed up yeah or then it just looks
weird it's perfect for retention oh my
god dude I love you more this Beast I
should say that oh my God is that on
camera no it's not yes it delete it
right now please go all right
three
two go look like I see a people oh
okay 3 2 1
reveal
R can't believe you're getting reactions
like this at 4:00 a.m. in the
morning but now seeing this game being
filmed there's another question that's
been looming on my mind where does all
the footage from all of these cameras
actually go this is the dit room these
guys are guess you could say the very
important but very unsung heroes of this
project cuz their entire job is to make
sure that no piece of footage goes
missing which when there's like 500
cameras on a shoot is a bit of a
logistical problem so the whole process
starts with these drives someone will
physically run into this room with a box
full of these drives what these guys are
doing is taking the footage on that
drive and categorizing it based on which
game that footage is from which camera
recorded that footage and which type of
microphone picked up the audio for that
footage which sounds like an absolute
nightmare of a task but they're doing it
so that when the editors are editing the
footage all they need to do is to just
think which bit of footage do I need as
opposed to having to rummage through
like a 100 different folders to find it
but it will make the edit like 10 times
faster right now this is where the fund
begins they plug these drives into their
computers which are all Mac Studios by
the way because well I'm told they don't
like Windows but then those Mac studios
are wired into something called an
ingest station which is eight very large
hard drives every single one is 20 terab
meaning that one ingest station has a
max capacity of 160 and then you realize
that there's 20 of these ingests in this
room so 3.2 petabytes of storage but it
gets crazier because they're shooting
this show for Amazon Amazon have
insisted that they have at least three
layers of backup for every single bit of
footage so as well as these ingest
stations every single drive has never
getting AR raas it will just stay as a
permanent hard copy of everything that's
been recorded and then every single one
of these in stations has has a fiber
cable coming out the back of it this is
a very fast connection we're talking 25
GBS per second there's a very specific
reason for this fiber cable and we can
actually follow it out of the room way
out of the room still going still going
still going and you follow that cable
all the way around and you end up with
this which is basically just one massive
server and that serves as the third
layer of backup it almost seems stupid
just how many precautions are being
taken but then when you start to adding
up how much they're spending to make the
show it starts to make sense how much
they're spending to keep the show this
room is actually particularly cool for a
few more reasons because these are video
recording boxes so you know how it
normally works with a camera you record
onto an SD card that's inserted inside
but these guys are doing it a little bit
differently because every single one of
the fixed cameras dotted around the
stadium is physically wired all the way
across the stadium into these boxes and
that has two pretty major benefits one
that instead of recording on tiny fiddly
little SD cards they record onto proper
drives but also too some of these
cameras are no joke 100 m up in the air
so imagine how much Manpower it would
require to individually keep track of
every single camera so that it doesn't
run out of storage and then swap over
the SD cards when it does but with this
setup one person could literally man
everything this is also super
interesting so because this recording
actually happens over a really long time
like I think we hit record at 10: p.m.
it's now 3:12 in the morning the
lighting changes so this guy over here
is actually in real time adjusting the
color temperature the black levels the
saturation of the cameras to make sure
that they stay consistent both as the
time of day changes but also between the
many different types of cameras being
used on the shoot because if you just
left each one alone they would all
naturally take footage that looks
slightly different to each other this is
the video router so it's the Box in
which every single one of the video
signals that you see comes through first
to be able to be distributed to all
these separate monitors so long story
short if this box goes down so does the
entire video which is why there's a 24/7
fan just blowing cool air at it so do
you remember the pan tilt Zoom cameras
that we talked about earlier well this
room is also where those are being
remotely operated from and the beauty of
these cameras is they allow you to
follow the action so let's say I find a
disruption happening with these
briefcases I can find where that
disruption is happening and then I can
just zoom in all the way onto that
disruption so it's allowing me from a
distance to create these really stable
cinematic sub stories within the biggest
that gets so close you forget that the
camera is positioned right on the very
end of the stadium it's just blowing my
mind that all of this like all of this
is the back end for one YouTube
video just to be super clear do not go
until I actually say the word goo he's
our guy look up at the screen all right
there you go see I'm oh actually I said
it you're right
oops oh my God I messed up but hey I
think he's pied to losing have to be
great how are you feeling nervous yeah I
can see it on your face is it you versus
every single person around you are
everyone thinks I'm out really oh man
yeah how will you feel if you are it's
fine it's my dad's birthday today is
that worth losing $5
million it's literally called Rick e
it's too perfect 3 2 1 open your brief
[Applause]
K I'm with that I decided that's enough
Beast games for today too much
heartbreak 4:40 a.m. we're heading back
that feels like a victory early yeah
early the time had come it was time for
the third final and most chaotic night
of all starting with the flag game where
all contestants are going to line up on
one side of the field and each round a
varying number of flags are brought into
the middle contestants have to decide
which round they're going to make a run
for it and when they do they have to
make sure they grab a flag while they're
at it or they're out knowing that in
total there aren't going to be enough
flags for every player where they make
the first like two or three like really
easy so they get it and then after that
we're going to do dozens of rounds I
want you guys to be super dumb is there
a dominant strategy you think there's a
lot of strategy to this I would probably
pick one quadrant and just be like well
there's a flag here I'm going no matter
what I'm going no matter what I like
really try to talk everyone around you
out of it it was also at this point that
I managed to get hold of something that
you never really get to see so these are
prev visualizations of the Amazon thum
thil and it's absolutely crazy like
how these were pre visualization Mr who
do not draft things is a clear favorite
so far I think this one wins they have
one version of this thumbnail poster
image based on like 15 of the most
popular movies and games from fortnite
to money Heist to How to Train Your
Dragon and this is the one they ended up
picking from them before long the first
flag it was time for the flag game to
begin as soon as I blow this horn the
round will
begin I won't lie to you I found this
game absolutely fascinating to watch oh
look those two are racing for flag
one it started off so organized with a
few of the louder people basically
making it very clear to the others
around them that they were going to run
for it so that no one else tries to but
then as the game went on you start to
notice that order breaking down because
you can't stay on the sidelines forever
because they will just run out of flags
so this just got more and more chaotic
there a tiny little drone up there
zipping around the stadium I think we
should find out who's flying it wait
he's up there he literally looks like an
imperial staffle Commander I think this
is the one we've seen zipping all around
the stadium like extremely quickly yeah
this one this one as well oh yeah this
looks very like homemade almost yeah
they're all custom built did you do it
yeah you made them yeah yeah custom
built and then the gimbals are my
designs who are you medin drum a few
years ago I tried out the idea of using
a head tracking to gimal just to see if
it would help with camera correction and
it ended up just being so much better
than I expected you didn't just build
the drones you built the entire system
the head tracking system this tilt
following my head yeah yeah wow
previously fpv is always flown fixed
angle which is where the piloting camera
and usually GoPro are fixed to the Drone
but the problem is that really limits
the shots you can get like you can't
like look down or anything yeah with
this this gives you a full 5 of Freedom
which pretty much means you can
accelerate in any direction while
looking in any direction so you're
controlling the movement with this
controller yeah exactly and your head is
looking up and down movement is
controlled by controller tilt movement
is via HED rcking there's two cameras
here one is the GoPro itself one is down
here what is that doing so this is our
piloting cam this is what I'm seeing in
my goggles and then this is our
recording cam of course of course right
cuz you can't stream directly the GoPro
yeah exactly that is absolutely
incredible so this compared to like the
big skycam that's overhead what's the
perk of this uh perk of this is I can
get inside of the crowd I'm not limited
by my like range I can go up into the
stand dive in do you get dangerously
close for fun yeah yeah so because
there's less Flags in this round he's
been given permission to take off with
the bigger drone you know cuz if there
was like 100 across the field you've got
a pretty good chance with that of
whacking someone in the
face whoa oh my god let's go have a look
at the footage that is absolutely
amazing so there's two types of drones
being used on the shoot they've got 10
of the more standard DJI drones and if
you look here you can see that those are
the ones responsible for these slower
more cinematic shots but then this guy
with his first person view drone his job
is to get really close and get these
super unique in the crowd action-packed
chaos shots if you have an idea and you
think it might or might not work it's
worth exploring cuz I didn't think this
would work before I tried it and now
it's changed my life so it's like wow
good for you man that's cool team come
true oh yeah also look a little closer
at the seats in every single one of the
65,000 seats in this Stadium just for
this video These Guys printed out and
fitted a full-sized Slender Man only for
the production team to later decide
actually no that looks a little weird
well that's a shocker and then send
people out for a second time to flip
every single one of those 65,000
Slendermen around to the blank side so
now you only see their faces when you're
up in the stands but now it was time to
get closer to the most serious pieces of
camera gear on this shoot this is the
kind of stuff that you don't normally
get to see like this starting with the
sky camera which is being controlled
from a box all the way in the top corner
of the stadium so this is the aerial
camera room this is I guess where the
magic happens yeah you guys are the sole
controllers of the sky cam yeah got the
pilot right here I move the camera rig
in space up down left right my operator
Kirby over there pans tilts zooms
focuses and gives us the best shot as
possible oh I see it's like a tank
turret versus driver exactly patchy
helicopter I've never heard that
comparison but yeah that go wow this is
some of the most beautiful footage I've
seen in my life what makes this
different to a drone safer it can't ever
fall out of the air and hit anybody we
have a larger camera Lar larger sensor
larger lens so we can create a little
bit better image than most drones can
explain to me what's happening on this
computer this is our fly space I can
always glance at that and know I'm 56 ft
above the turf here is that important
because you're trying to stay out of the
way of other cameras and their shots and
exactly so the coordinates that we use
when we first get here we build that fly
space and I can put walls barriers
obstacles to keep us safe from hitting
stuff so for instance the boulder
structure over there I have a wall right
here these yellow ones are ramps so we
can go up into the sets and not run
right into the pile of money yeah and so
the camera will now do that
automatically now that you've set those
constraints indeed so when you go from
green to Yellow it will automatically
lift if it's too low that's right wow
that's a smart bit of Kit and this is
fascinating watching you two guys talk
to each other cuz you're both
controlling different parts of this
camera are you telepathic we've done
enough games together that we kind of
think along the same wavelength if he's
flying a certain direction I know what
kind of look is possible from that angle
that he's got the rig physically at so
then I just pan or tilt Zoom whatever
and it makes the shot look good it's
like good dance Partners the longer
they've been dancing together the better
they can read what the other one's about
to do you two would kill it on a dance
floor so I'm seeing something and it's
upsetting me a little bit are you
recording in 1080P no they are receiving
4K just 10p to the monitors so that the
throughput is limited this is just for
us cuz that would be a massive waste yes
indeed it would indeed it would I'm so
relieved but it's easy to forget this
show isn't just about filming a video
it's a very real tournament with very
real Stakes so as you've had a taste off
earlier these guys also have to make
sure that there are proper systems in
place for adjudication so anytime two
contestants think that they're the ones
who touched the flag first there's a
whole Squadron of Staff who have to run
to that big dit storage room they have
to take the drives that have the footage
on they have to run them back to the
stadium and then go through that footage
from several of the fixed cameras frame
by frame until each dispute is resolved
and grabs it first the guy on the right
would be the one that has possession
this guy yeah yeah yeah this is stuff
you don't see in the final Mr Beast
video but there are disputes literally
every round of every game and you can't
move on to the next one until each one
is resolved which as you can imagine is
another reason why there is so much
waiting around when you're on set but
also do you notice how every single
person working here is wearing a headset
well each of those is connected to one
of these called a bolero which basically
allows you to talk to any other person
in the stadium immediately without even
needing to dial a phone number it's a
version of like a a walkie SL telephone
so you've got a walk which normally you
talk one at a time this is kind of like
that but I can talk over you this gets
rid of the whole over and out Roger yes
they're called comms or pl's which
stands for party line which is a
throwback to early phone lines when
you'd have a whole neighborhood or a
whole group of people they're all on the
same phone number like on your pack here
y all the camera guys are on that button
so it's one button to talk to everyone
who's been assigned as a camera everyone
who has that button we also do a lot of
like deployment of antennas there's one
right there so those are all over the
venue and you guys have installed these
all yourself yeah our group of five guys
here so you basically created your own
mobile phone network inside the stadium
yeah just for this one
video and that's a wrap on game three
and since the team were also determined
to not let this go on for another day it
was very rapidly time to set up for the
final game well I say very rapidly like
I said earlier everything does take way
longer than you think but you know it
took 3 hours to get everything for this
game into position instead of 24 so this
final game which is the game that
determines who ends up making it to the
main Amazon Prime show is a bit of a
returning Classic on the Mr Beast
Channel this is last to leave so
contestants split into teams and each
team stands on a pillar except they're
not really teams because Mr Beast will
then offer bribes of an increasing value
until someone in one of those pillars
jumps off accepts the money for
themselves and condemns the rest of
their team to lose by the end of this
challenge one of you will backstab your
entire team and to see this game in
action we headed to one of the Box
cameras wow look at that thing when
you're on the ground it all feels like
chaos but from up here you can see the
action in a very different way so we've
been told that this guy is apparently
planning to sabotage the entire event
and so the story producers have let this
trained operator of the Box Cam know
that and so he is staying locked onto
this guy like a hawk waiting to see what
he does just to try and convey the
gravity of this piece of technology this
is a 16 mm to 35 mm M lens which
basically means you can go Ultra Ultra
wide at 16 mm or decently zoomed in at
35 but this this camera right here is
8.4 mm to
832 these are absolutely Bonkers numbers
like the kind of numbers that allow you
to view the entire stadium in one shot
or go all the way to someone's face
who's standing on the opposite side of
it and so the total price of one of
these bad boys
$100,000 each and there's eight of them
the final game
begins reveal what the first Pride will
be it'll be
$5,000 no takers he's going to have to
up the state I'll give you 50
Grand oh hasn't started yet the second
he announced it abolute cor didn't start
that Tim yet oh my go no cuz the Tim
hasn't started yet and that was a very
strange rap on game four so now just
before we get to the final cost of this
entire production the only question left
unanswered is this $5 million in cash I
cannot believe they actually did that
with real money you actually can't get
through there without trampling on
$1,000
bills how did they actually get it see
this Mr Beast from JP Morgan Chase total
is $5 million you steing some should we
I mean probably would have noticed what
do you think of it what do I think of $5
million in cash yeah how does it work to
get that amount of money in cash cuz
that's obviously not a normal thing that
JP Morgan are approached with goes all
the way to the top and then you know
bring armored trucks with like a little
militia to your studio and drop it off
that's a fun BTS so that's how they get
$5 million as for how they keep it so
there's Stadium security on the outside
police on the inside armor truck two
security guys around the top that just
sit and watch it so if someone made a
run for it they would just tackled them
it's in ones it's hard to run with a lot
of ones I don't know if you've ever
tried to lift ones no not that many just
one of our team C briefcases proba
pounds and so if you run with it I can
catch you I'm old we estimate on the
stage right now is 12,000 a Mony
12,000 that's the equivalent of two
adult African elephants worth of pure
paper notes they did the math so they
could build the structure to hold it are
there cameras specifically trained on
that money as well yes we put extras on
place we spent this entire 3 Days
running around counting up the value of
all the equipment and Tech that we've
seen and so the final cost to make this
one YouTube video is well we forgot a
few things we got all the staff costs we
got costumes which remember every single
person here needs an outfit which is
printed in house and has to be fitted we
got the cost for all equipment used in
each game every Boulder every briefcase
and so on we've got the contestant costs
2,000 flights 2,000 Hotel I love how
casually you say that meals three times
a day over the course of a week not to
mention a total of $2 million just in
money given to the contestants who got
out for this one episode plus the insane
audio gear just to make sure that
everyone's voice is picked up and sounds
good on video if you have to guess the
audio gear in this entire video what is
it worth oh millions of dollars but then
also stuff like the months of pre-prep
that had to go into designing every game
the cost of the Raiders stadium the
place where the Super Bowl was held it
goes on and on on but there's quite a
big saving from the fact that a lot of
the equipment you see here is being
rented as opposed to bought leaving the
final cost figure is $14 million for the
video And1 19 million if you include the
5 million prize money